In this lesson, we'll take a look at the Frost theme, a new block based theme with full editing like
2022.
You'll check out the Frost WP e-commerce site, which shows all the black patterns and style blocks
available so far.
By the end of this video, you'll see how you can leverage the pre-designed sample sites.
Explore the demo sites and easily import a complete site as a starting point.
Let's take a look at another block based theme in WordPress and build another site with it.
If you took the last course, you may remember Genesis.
Themes from studio press and the makers of Genesis have come up with the next generation of what Genesis
is going to provide from WP Engine, a free theme called Frost from the founders of Genesis.
Now, similar to twenty twenty two, it leverages the power of the site templates and the site editor
where you can use blocks and a block based system for templating without code and controlling global
elements like the header and the footer and other elements within the website, including typography,
colors and other items and block patterns, especially.
Let's take a look at frost, and we'll build a site within the sandbox and also learn about another
way to import site content to make a site automatically look like the demo or the sample.
So if you open up your sandbox site, I'm just going to go ahead and click my sites here in the sidebar
or up at the top corner.
You should do the same, and if you have one site here, you can always click Add a new site and then
it'll bring bring you to the registration page, where you can choose a site name and a site URL and
go ahead and click Create that'll create another site for you.
Then you can go in under appearance themes with that site active and choose the Frost theme and click
Activate.
I already have my Frost theme activated here in my sandbox site.
Also, I would suggest you open another tab and go to Frost WP XCOM so you can check it out and we'll
take a look at it together right now.
So Frost, you can see, is a pretty clean look.
This is just the home page of Frost created with Frost, but it has that kind of studio press and genesis
clean and minimalist look.
And there's a few things I wanted to show you here.
One is a series of block patterns now in frost, at least for now.
It's very minimalist and with really blacks and whites and grays and kind of a frame setup.
So if you were to look at something like, you know, hero section block patterns, for example, you've
got, you know, an image with two called action buttons and some text and a heading, and you have
the reverse of that with a light colored background, dark image, etc..
Here is a block pattern that has a hero section full with darker color, with a light image and lighter
color right here.
Here's a three items etc so you can go through and on the block patterns page.
You can look at what all patterns are included in Frost WP.
Again, it's a three theme.
It's not available in the WordPress repository yet, but it does take advantage of WordPress five point
nine and later.
And the site editor in is a block based theme and offers up these well-designed block patterns that
you can leverage to make any design that you like.
Another place to look is the style guide, where you can see the actual blocks that are available within
frost.
For example, you've got rounded corners.
Total pill shaped square corners.
Different fills, different ways.
The rollovers work.
You've got different widths for buttons and alignments as well.
And so if you keep going through here, you could see there are a lot of different customized blocks
that you can use and have a lot of good settings in them.
Similar to twenty twenty two now, a big difference between Frost and twenty twenty two is that, you
know, the block patterns aren't styled with existing images, but instead they're using generic kind
of wireframe images with just, you know, black background with a little logo here.
So three sizes within frost you'll see a 600 pixel and a wide width 2200 pixel and a full width 100
percent for what the image comes in as.
And then thirdly, if you go across the navigation, check out the sample sites.
This is where we're going to be able to use a special import process that's been available in WordPress
for a long time.
The import of an XML file to bring in images and a pre designed layout that you can either use as a
starting point or use to learn about frost and what's available.
So there's three.
There's venture capital, small business and night mode.
For example, we can click View Demo, and it opens in a new tab where you can see just what this theme
frost can do.
There's a full with image and a section with a heading and a three column design, their call to action
with a colored background and a roll over button.
There's another section right here.
You can kind of see what's possible with Frost by looking at these samples like this.
So if we go to the services page can see a full width image below a header, you know, with with some
text there, three columns with interactive buttons and then service plans.
This one is a pricing page with a pricing table and three buttons right here.
This is a blog page that shows a single column blog where the featured images are shown in a certain
way.
There's a quote that has kind of a border and a drop shadow right there ET.
And so the the styling here, if we add one more thing, you can go a little bit deeper in the services
page.
You look at, for example, click architectural design.
You can see that here's a service page that has some text like that.
And so let's go ahead and activate Frost.
And you know, when you first activate it and look at the site, it'll just show a blank white page
with a header and a footer and a single Hello World blog post in there on the home page.
But if we bring in the XML file that you can get from Frost WP, you'll see that you can make your site
look like one of the sample sites in just a couple of clicks.
And so this is what I've done to to my initial installation of Frost.
You can see that it looks like the small business sample site and we can go in there and customize it
and take a look at how Frost works in the background.